<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VIII: The Redheaded Bandit</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Redheaded Bandit</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Well, as soon as Jibby Jones got the map, we went down to the lower end of the island, and we saw the Tough Customer’s shanty-boat floating out of the slough and on down the river, and then we went back.</p>
			<p>Orpheus Cadwallader and Wampus’s Uncle Oscar went back to the cottages, and we boys began looking for dead fish where we had left off, and as we looked we talked about the Tough Customer and the Rat and the land pirate’s treasure. We did not study the map then, because it was soaking wet. Jibby Jones pinned it inside his hat, so it could dry out there.</p>
			<p>As we went along, Skippy and Tad and Wampus told me what they had heard the Tough Customer say to the Rat, and what they had heard the Rat say to the Tough Customer, and when they had told it all, Wampus said to me:</p>
			<p>“George, I’ll bet the man the Tough Customer stole the map from was the Redheaded Bandit that tried to steal Rover last year. Because, listen⁠—the Redheaded Bandit had a scar over his eye, didn’t he?”</p>
			<p>“You bet he did!” I said. And all of a sudden I had a scared feeling, as if there was danger and mystery all around me and I knew it, but couldn’t see where or what it was exactly. You get the same feeling, sometimes, when you are walking through a big patch of weeds, taller than your head, and all of a sudden you hear a queer noise to the left of you, and a queer noise to the right of you, and then a cobweb strikes you across the face and sticks there, and you hear another queer noise behind you. That’s how I felt now⁠—as if there was queerness and mystery all around our island. Because here was the Redheaded Bandit in this pirate’s treasure business, and I had never thought of the Redheaded Bandit as anything much.</p>
			<p>The business of the Redheaded Bandit was like this: A year ago, the year before Jibby Jones came to our island, my sister May was going to be married to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever, of Derlingport, Iowa, on September 11th, in the evening. They were going to be married at our house down in town⁠—in Riverbank⁠—and from the way May and mother talked about it you would think it was going to be grand and lovely and everything. So May said to mother:</p>
			<p>“Well, I suppose George and Wampus will have to be at the wedding, but I tremble to think of it. I know they will do some awful thing and spoil everything, but I suppose they will have to be there.”</p>
			<p>May knew mighty well I wouldn’t go to her wedding or to anybody’s wedding unless Wampus went, too. We always go together.</p>
			<p>“We’ll just have to hope for the best,” mother said.</p>
			<p>“Well, there is one thing certain,” May said, “I’m not going to have those two boys down there until the last possible moment. When we go down to make the preparations, I want them left up here on the island where they will be out of mischief.”</p>
			<p>That suited me, all right! I didn’t want to go down and have May nagging at me with her “Do keep your hands off that, George!” and “Please don’t touch that, George!”</p>
			<p>We had been up there on Birch Island all summer⁠—our family and Wampus Smale’s family and a dozen other families⁠—living in the cottages on stilts and having a good time on the island and on the good old Mississippi. So, about the 1st of September, most of the families went back down to town, but our family and the Smales did not. They waited a few days longer.</p>
			<p>Just about then⁠—about the 1st of September⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever came down from Derlingport in his motorboat to visit with us until the wedding. I don’t say I liked him much; neither did Wampus. Maybe he was all right, but he was no fun. He thought he was wonderful, I guess, and May thought so, but he was too haughty to suit me. I guess he didn’t like boys much and he thought he had to be severe and solemn with them. He acted as if he thought he might die if the creases got out of his trousers. He had no use for my dog, either. He was always saying: “Down! Lie down! Get down! Get out!” to Rover. He did not like him.</p>
			<p>You see, Rover is a pretty big dog and affectionate. He would rush up to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever and jump up on him and try to kiss him on the face. Sometimes he would get one paw on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever’s necktie and one paw on his collar, and sometimes he would get one paw on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever’s vest and the other sort of tangled in his watch-chain. Then <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever would whack at him and say: “Get down you beast!” But not when May was handy.</p>
			<p>Rover was my dog, because May had given him to me, but he was May’s dog, too, because <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts had given him to May. I never knew when Rover was my dog and when he was May’s dog, because girls are mostly Indian givers. When she wanted to pet Rover and take him walking, he was May’s dog⁠—so she claimed⁠—but when Rover howled or needed to be fed, May would say: “For goodness’ sake, George, attend to that dog of yours!”</p>
			<p>I guess one reason <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever did not care much for Rover was because <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts had given him to May. I guess <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever was jealous, because when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts gave Rover to May everybody thought <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts was the one she was going to be married to.</p>
			<p>Well, no matter! I only want to tell you the awful fix Wampus and I got into on account of being left up there on the island where we would be out of mischief.</p>
			<p>On the 9th of September Parcell came up in his big motor-launch and took May and mother and the Smales all down to town to get ready for May’s wedding. So they left <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever on the island with me and Wampus, because we could go down in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever’s motorboat on the 11th, which was the wedding day. I guess they were almost as glad to have <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever out of the way as they were to have me and Wampus out of the way.</p>
			<p>That left nobody on the island but us three and Orpheus Cadwallader, who is the caretaker and stays on the island all winter. He was to close up our cottage when we left.</p>
			<p>So that was all right. The last thing May said before she got aboard Parcell’s launch was:</p>
			<p>“Now, George, you be sure you don’t let Rover wander off somewhere so you can’t bring him down when you come. You had better tie him up.”</p>
			<p>I’ve told you about Rover, and how he would wander for miles around the island, and even swim across to Oak Island and wander there, hunting a dead fish to perfume himself with.</p>
			<p>The only way to keep him from wandering after dead fish was to tie him up, and then he howled all night. That was his second bad habit, and it was almost worse than dead fish. He was the loudest and saddest howler I ever heard. When you tied him up, he would sit down on his haunches and put his nose up and open his mouth and just let loose all the agony of all the dogs that ever suffered pain or sorrow from the days of Adam right on to today. And loudly, too. When Rover really got interested in howling, you could hear him five miles.</p>
			<p>The only thing in Riverbank or anywhere near it that made as much noise as Rover’s howl was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts’s motorboat. His motorboat was a speed boat and was called the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Skittery <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></i>, because <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts had run the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Skittery <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span></i> and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Skittery <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span></i> onto snags and mashed them to splinters. I guess that was one reason why May did not want to marry <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts⁠—she was afraid he would mash himself to splinters some day. A husband that is mashed to splinters is not much use around the house.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever used to say:</p>
			<p>“That’s Jack Betts all over! He uses a barrel of gasoline every time he takes out that boat of his⁠—fourteen dollars to risk his life for ten miles of idiotic speed, and he hasn’t a dollar in the bank! Twenty-seven years old and not a dollar to his name!”</p>
			<p>Even father would not ride in the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Skittery <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></i>. It was a much faster boat than the others and could make thirty-five miles an hour upstream on our old Mississippi, and that is some speed! When it was going full tilt the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Skittery <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></i> stood up on about three inches of the stern end of its keel and simply skittered on the water, and all twelve cylinders screamed. It made more noise than forty airplanes. It made more noise than ten planing mills. I never knew anything that made such a noise.</p>
			<p>And go? <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts and his chauffeur had to wear leather helmets to keep the wind from blowing the hair right off their heads. Father said that if the boat ever took a nose dive it would ram itself so deep into the bottom of the water that Jack Betts would have to go around to China and pull it the rest of the way through⁠—only there wouldn’t be any Jack Betts to go to China.</p>
			<p>Well, about four o’clock on September 10th we heard a noise down the river that sounded like forty-seven sawmills and we knew <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts was starting the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Skittery <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></i>. Town is four miles down river and in about a minute the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Skittery <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></i> came roaring up into our chute and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts shut off the power and taxied in to the shore of our island. He had a note for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever, and it was from May. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts stood around and asked if there was any answer. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever said there was not⁠—that May only wanted him to go down a little earlier the next day than she had told him before. He was rather stiff about it, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts was just as stiff, and after a minute or two <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jack Betts went down and got into the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Skittery <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></i> and skittered back to town.</p>
			<p>Wampus and I sat on the rocks of the ripraps in front of our cottage and watched the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Skittery <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></i> skitter. Old Rover was there, piling all over us, and we kept pushing him away and telling him to sit down. Every now and then he would tangle us in the rope that was tied to his collar.</p>
			<p>“You had better tie up that dog,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever said. “If he wanders off tonight, you may not have him tomorrow.”</p>
			<p>Now, just notice how things happen in this world sometimes. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever was on the porch of our cottage, behind the wire screens where the mosquitoes could not get at him, and he was not very quiet. I guess he was thinking of how he would have to be married the next day. Anyway, he was walking up and down the porch, putting his hands into his pockets and taking them out again. Every minute or so he would say something to us, as a man does when he is nervous. First he would tell us to tie up the dog, then he would say he hoped the dog did wander away, and that he would be glad if he never saw the dog again.</p>
			<p>“And just you let me tell you one thing!” he said. “I’m not going to have that dog jumping all over me at my wedding. I’m not going to have that dog clawing all over me and clawing all over May and making a general nuisance of himself. And I won’t have him tied up and howling. I’m not going to let that dog spoil my wedding. You understand that!”</p>
			<p>I just said “Aw!” and went on talking with Wampus and wrestling with Rover. So, in a little while, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Bright Star</i> came along down the river with a couple of Government barges loaded with willows. There are not many boats on the river now, so Wampus and I looked at the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Bright Star</i> as she went by, and when she reached the lower end of our island she veered in and laid the two barges alongside the ripraps. The men ran a couple of cables ashore and made the two barges fast by hitching the cables to a couple of trees and then the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Bright Star</i> sheered off and crossed the chute and went out of sight behind Buffalo Island, across the chute. It was no fun sitting where we were listening to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edwin Skreever scold, so Wampus and I got up and went down the path to take a look at the two barges.</p>
			<p>They were like plenty of other Government barges we had seen. These two had their numbers painted on them⁠—<i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">U.S.</abbr> 420</i> and <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">U.S.</abbr> 426</i>⁠—and they were seventeen feet wide and eighty-two feet long. Wampus and I had been in and over those very two barges more than once. We knew just how they were made and all about them.</p>
			<p>The two barges, as they lay along the shore there, were piled high with cut willows. The Government men cut the willows where they grow at the lower ends of islands and take them on the barges to places where they are repairing dams or ripraps. They throw the willows on the dams, butt end upstream, and dump rocks on them. Ripraps along the banks are made that same way. It is not often you see two barges alone; the steamer usually tows four or six at a time. All these barges are decked over. The decks are made of four-inch planks, and at each end of this flooring are two hatches, with lids. When nobody is around to order a fellow off the barges, he can pull up these hatch covers and get inside the barges.</p>
			<p>The inside of one of those barges is not much of a place to be in. When you go down through the hatch, you see that the inside is damp, with maybe three or four inches of water in it, and a smell of tar or oakum. It is about five feet from the bottom boards to the floorboards, so a fellow can stand up there, but he can’t run much because there are crisscross braces. Neither is the inside of a barge one big room. Two great, thick bulkheads, or wooden walls, run lengthwise of the barge and cut it into three narrow halls⁠—as you might call them⁠—eighty feet long and about five feet wide.</p>
			<p>These two barges were pretty well loaded with willows. One of them was loaded from the tip of its bow to the end of its stern⁠—willows piled ten or twelve feet high. The other, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">U.S.</abbr> 420</i>, was almost as well loaded, but not quite.</p>
			<p>So Wampus and I stood looking at the barges and we thought maybe we would climb aboard and climb on the willows and have some fun, but, when we were going to, a man we hadn’t seen sat up and looked at us. He had red hair and a scar over one eye. And that was the first we saw of the Redheaded Bandit.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
