<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XV: The Grape Tree</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Grape Tree</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Well, one afternoon‚ÅÝ‚Äîit was about two weeks later‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI was sitting on the grass where the mud cove is, just below our cottage up there on our Birch Island, and Jibby Jones was sitting beside me. We weren‚Äôt doing anything but waiting, or nothing much else, but we had three or four empty baskets and a rake and an axe beside us. We were waiting for Uncle Beeswax, because he was going to take us to get wild grapes.</p>
			<p>One day, just after we had met him at Greenland Creek Uncle Beeswax had stopped at Birch Island to see if our folks wanted any honey or beeswax. Generally, when he stopped at our island he went right past us boys and up to the cottages, but since we had saved him from the Tough Customer he liked us, I guess. That day Jibby Jones was rigging up a trotline, and after Uncle Beeswax had told us that the Tough Customer and the Rat were still digging at the creek bank, and had said, a couple of times, ‚ÄúMy, what a nose! My, what a noble nose!‚Äù he put down his baskets and looked at what Jibby was doing, and shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho taught you that way to tie hooks on a trotline?‚Äù he asked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNobody did,‚Äù Jibby said in his solemn way. ‚ÄúI evolved this way out of my own head.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, it is no way at all,‚Äù said Uncle Beeswax. ‚ÄúLet me show you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>So he showed Jibby how to fix hooks on a trotline. You know what a trotline is. It is a long, stout fish-line‚ÅÝ‚Äîmighty stout, too‚ÅÝ‚Äîand sometimes a quarter of a mile long, or more. You tie one end to a tree on the bank and have the rest of the line coiled in your skiff, with the hooks tied on about three or four feet apart, and while someone rows your skiff out into the river you pay out the line. When you come to the end of the line, you tie a big anchor rock on the end of it and chuck it overboard. The hooks are not fastened directly onto the trotline. Each hook is on a short line of its own‚ÅÝ‚Äîmaybe a foot and a half long, and the ends of these lines are tied to the trotline. That lets them float free and gives a fish some play when it gets caught. Otherwise it might break away easier. It was the way Jibby was tying these hook-lines to the trotline that Uncle Beeswax did not like.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf you tie them that way, Jibby,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúthey‚Äôll slide back and forth along the line when a big fish gets on them. This is the right way.‚Äù</p>
			<p>So he showed Jibby, but Jibby did not bother to go over the job again. He thought the line might do as it was, because it was a big job to untie hundreds of hard knots and he wanted to get his trotline in the water and catch some fish.</p>
			<p>After that old Uncle Beeswax used to stop at the island every day he went by, and he knew more about the old river, and told us more, than any man ever did, except, maybe, Wampus Smale‚Äôs Uncle Oscar. What Uncle Oscar did not know Uncle Beeswax did.</p>
			<p>Anyway, Jibby Jones put out his trotline that afternoon after Uncle Beeswax went. He tied one end to a tree by the mud cove and Wampus and I rowed the skiff while Jibby paid out the trotline and he anchored the far end out beyond the middle of the river with a rock big enough to hold a house from floating away. After that we ‚Äúran‚Äù the trotline twice a day and we always got fish‚ÅÝ‚Äîsometimes three or four catfish and white perch and sometimes a carp or two, but always some. When you ‚Äúrun‚Äù a trotline one fellow rows the skiff to keep the current from sweeping it downstream too strong, and the other sits in the bow of the boat with the trotline dragging over it. He pulls the boat along by pulling on the trotline, and when he comes to a hook-line he takes off the fish‚ÅÝ‚Äîif there is one‚ÅÝ‚Äîand baits the hook and lets it slide back down into the water.</p>
			<p>So that‚Äôs that. There was Jibby‚Äôs trotline stretching out a quarter of a mile or so from our island, dipping into the river just a few feet beyond the tree it was tied to, like a submarine cable that did not go quite to Buffalo Island. When we were out ‚Äúrunning‚Äù the line, old Uncle Beeswax would row toward us, if he happened to be rowing by, and he would ask how many fish we were getting, and things like that.</p>
			<p>So, on this day in August, Jibby and I were out ‚Äúrunning‚Äù the trotline and Wampus was in the stern of our skiff, and here came old Uncle Beeswax rowing out from the shore of Buffalo Island toward us. There was quite a breeze blowing and his long gray whiskers blew out like a pennant. He rowed up alongside, and he was almost bobbing up and down on his seat, he was so excited.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy, my!‚Äù he cried. ‚ÄúMy, oh, my! I just ran across the grandest grape tree I ever saw in my whole life, bar none whatever! More wild grapes than I ever saw in one place in all my born days. A big tree and just loaded down and weighted down and covered with grapes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Well, we knew why he had come to tell us. He had said that sometime when he found a fine grape tree he would let us know and take us with him to get wild grapes, and he had found one. It was loaded down with wild grapes, Uncle Beeswax said. There were so many wild grapes the tree looked blue instead of green. It was worth going miles to see‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust to see, mind you!‚ÅÝ‚Äîand all those grapes were ours just for the getting! Bushels of them! No wonder Uncle Beeswax was excited.</p>
			<p>He was so excited he sputtered when he tried to talk, and his old hands trembled. It meant money for him because he sold wild grapes to women who wanted to make jelly, but he was almost as pleased because he could show Jibby and us a real grape tree, and lead us where we could get our share of grapes from the most wonderful grape tree any man ever saw. It was a poor year for grapes, but that is the way the wild grapes behave. You‚Äôll walk miles and see only a few skinny bunches that are all bird-picked and not worth bothering with, and then you‚Äôll run across one tree just loaded down with vines and the vines loaded with full bunches of lovely blue grapes.</p>
			<p>Uncle Beeswax tried to tell us where the tree was, but we could not understand. We thought we had walked all over Buffalo Island, and we had never seen a tree like that. So he took a piece of paper from Jibby and a pencil from Wampus and he tried to draw a map. By the map we understood pretty well where the tree must be, and the reason we had never seen it was because it was hidden. The map Uncle Beeswax made showed why.</p>
			<p>Right straight across the river from the tree Jibby had his trotline tied to was a sycamore tree on Buffalo Island. If you rowed across from Jibby‚Äôs trotline tree to the sycamore tree and climbed the bank, you got into a tangle of briars and tall nettles and wild flax and poison ivy thirty or forty feet wide, and that was a jungle nobody would want to break through. Just back of that was a sort of gully that the river had hollowed out, and that gully had been mushy mud all summer. It ran up and down for an eighth of a mile, both ways.</p>
			<p>Now, you know how all those islands are‚ÅÝ‚Äîall a mess of trees and vines and tangles of one sort and another. Whenever we landed on Buffalo Island, we would walk down along the shore until we were below the mushy gully, or up until we were above it, and, when we were coming from the other side and struck the gully, we did the same. That was all right, but we had been fooled every time. There was not just one gully; there were two of them. They joined together at their upper and lower ends. What we had always done, and what anyone would do, was to look across the gully from the side toward the river and think we saw the woods on the other side, but what we saw was a little island of woods. The same way, looking across the gully from the island side of it, we thought we saw the tangle that was along the bank of the river, but we really saw the little island of woods. Those islands fool you a thousand times, that way. So there was the little island between its mud gullies and that was where the wonderful grape tree was. All that had happened was that the hot, dry August days had dried the mud in the gullies, and Uncle Beeswax had walked across on the dry cakes of mud and had found the grape tree.</p>
			<p>That was simple enough, but if Uncle Beeswax could do it the next man looking for grapes could do it, too, and, with everybody looking for grapes for jelly and for wine, that might happen any minute. No wonder he was excited.</p>
			<p>He made it all clear enough for us and he gave Jibby the map. We dropped the trotline back into the water in a hurry, I tell you! This was what we were to do. Jibby and Wampus and I were to row back to our island and tell Skippy Root and Tad Willing and get baskets and axes and a rake or two. The rakes were to pull down the vines. The axes were to chop down the tree. It‚Äôs a ruinous way to do, but it is the way everyone does.</p>
			<p>Uncle Beeswax was to row up to his shanty-boat and get his own baskets and axe and rake and he was to stop at our mud cove for Jibby and me. Wampus and Skippy and Tad were to go in one skiff, and Uncle Beeswax and Jibby and I in the other. So Uncle Beeswax rowed off up the river and Jibby and Wampus and I rowed home across the river.</p>
			<p>We hunted up Skippy and Tad and told them what was up, and they got busy. They got baskets and axes and rakes, and Jibby and I did the same, and then Skippy and Wampus and Tad took my skiff and rowed away. They were to go over to the shore by the big sycamore tree and wait for us. We had to wait for Uncle Beeswax. That was why we were sitting there on the grass by the mud cove like I told you in the beginning. So we talked, because we had nothing else to do. Only, it was Jibby who talked.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
